========
Overview
========

The open source components of Kubeflow provide a diverse set of tools for data processing, training, and deployment of machine learning models. Understanding how these components work together is crucial for building effective machine learning workflows. Jupyter notebooks, for example, offer an interactive environment for data exploration and experimentation, while TensorFlow is a powerful open source machine learning framework used for building and training models. Apache Spark, on the other hand, is a distributed computing framework capable of handling large-scale data processing and machine learning workloads. By leveraging these tools, developers can build robust and efficient machine learning workflows that are tailored to their specific needs. In this section, we’ll introduce the Kubeflow open source components used in the vSphere Enterprise Kubeflow platform. Our goal is to help developers explore the various tools available and choose the most suitable components for their specific use cases.

The open source nature of Kubeflow allows developers to contribute to the platform by creating new components or extending existing ones. This improves the functionality and capabilities of the platform and ultimately benefits the entire machine learning community. Specifically, vSphere Enterprise Kubeflow provides several add-on features that enhance the open source Kubeflow. In this section, we’ll introduce these features and highlight their benefits to help developers leverage the full potential of this platform.

MLOps (Machine Learning Operations) and Kubeflow are closely related, as MLOps is an approach to managing the entire lifecycle of machine learning models, while Kubeflow is an open source platform for building, deploying, and managing machine learning models at scale.  Kubeflow provides several MLOps capabilities, such as automated model training and deployment workflows, version control, and automated testing and monitoring. These capabilities streamline machine learning workflows, reduce development time, and improve model performance. In the last part of this section, we’ll explore how vSphere Enterprise Kubeflow leverages MLOps to provide a complete solution for managing machine learning models at scale, from development to deployment and monitoring.
